Questions

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange": String
42: Integer
09/02/1945: Date
98.7: Float
$15.99: Decimal


2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database will be used when needing to store a large amount of datas, representing the same type of datas, for example a name-list. 
A text file will be used to store a short text, mostly for information and reminder. 


3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

One of the different thing with SQL is that it is a declarative language instead of a procedural. It makes it much easier to understand, especially for beginners. 


4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

The pieces of database system fit together at a high level simply because they are inserted following an equal pattern through the use of tables, rows and columns. 


5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A table will contain an organised set of values organised themselves through a different set of rows and columns. 
A row is an horizontal set of values, or available spaces to implement values. 
A column is a vertical set of values, or available spaces to implement values. 
Rows and Columns mixed together form a table. 
A value can be described as a unit containing a set of information. 


6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

The three main data types are: 
- text
- number
- date


7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

This first table will have the columns dates and amounts selected from the payments database. 


     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

In that case, we will select the column amounts, from the payments db, but only those above 500. 


     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

In that case, every information from payments to 'Mega Foods' will be selected. 


8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

- The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

	SELECT email, signupdate 
	FROM users
	WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data'


- The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

	SELECT userid
	FROM users
	WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'


- All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

	SELECT *
	FROM users
	WHERE ID >= 4
